[IMP] website: general themes restructuration task-4644985 (#12745)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/websites/website/web_design/themes.rst

=============
General theme
=============

Odoo offers various options to shape your website’s theme, including its
:ref:`Colors <website/themes/colors>`, :ref:`Fonts <website/themes/fonts>`, and
:ref:`Layouts <website/themes/page-layouts>`, ensuring alignment with your company's brand identity
and aesthetics.

When setting up your website for the first time, you land on the theme selection page. Hover your
mouse over the themes to see an extended preview of each page. Click on a page to apply the theme to
your website. If you leave without selecting a theme, Odoo automatically assigns the
:guilabel:`Default` theme  to your website. You can switch themes later as many times as you want.

In the website builder, the :guilabel:`Theme` tab offers many customization options for your theme.
Go to :menuselection:`Website --> Edit --> Theme`.

Once you have made the desired changes, click on :guilabel:`Save` to confirm and apply them to your
website.

Themes
======

In the :guilabel:`Website` section, click on :guilabel:`Switch Theme` to open the theme selector.

> Hover your mouse over the themes to see an extended preview of each page. Click on it to apply the
> theme to your website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hover your mouse over the themes to see an extended preview of each one. Click on a theme to apply it to your website.
```
- Pages ≠ Themes
- I think it would make more sense in the second sentence to use theme first and then "it" to refer to it, not the other way around

.. _website/themes/colors:

Colors
======

> Odoo's website builder features two main types of colors : :guilabel:`Theme Colors` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Odoo's website editor features two main types of colors : :guilabel:`Theme Colors` and
```
the builder is what is used when you are first setting up your website :wink:

> Odoo's website builder features two main types of colors : :guilabel:`Theme Colors` and
> :guilabel:`Status Colors`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Odoo's website builder features two main types of colors: :guilabel:`Theme Colors` and
:guilabel:`Status Colors`.
```
and I would add a ref for each sub-heading here (Theme colors and Status colors --> not capital for colors since we're talking about the general concept)

> Theme Colors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Theme colors
```
sentence case in headings

------------

> :guilabel:`Theme Colors` refers to the set of colors displayed across all pages of your website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Theme Colors` refer to the set of colors displayed across all pages of your website.
```

These are made of five colors: three main colors and two light and dark colors.

To edit your website's colors, go to the :guilabel:`Colors` section in the website editor, then:

- Click on the color dot you want to change, then select a :guilabel:`Solid` color or click on
  :guilabel:`Custom` to pick a specific color tone manually (or add its #HEX or RGBA code).
- Click on the paint palette icon and choose a color palette. As a result, all color customizations
  are reset; click a color dot to change a specific color.

Odoo automatically creates :guilabel:`Color Presets` for your chosen palette. These are predefined
color combinations applied to different elements of your website to provide a structured and
visually appealing design. When you select a color palette, its presets define how those colors are

> distributed across different elements from a building block such as buttons, backgrounds, and text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
distributed across different elements from a building block, such as buttons, backgrounds, and text.
```

If you want to modify them, click on :guilabel:`Color Presets` and click on a preset to customize it
further. Each color preset contains colors for your building block’s background, text, headings,
links, primary buttons, and secondary buttons.

.. image:: themes/color-presets.png
   :scale: 80%
   :alt: Color presets

To apply a color preset to a building block on your site, select the building block, go to the
:guilabel:`Customize` tab, click the color dot located next to :guilabel:`Background`, and choose a
:guilabel:`Theme`.

.. note::
   Changing a color preset automatically updates the colors of both the default preset and the
   building blocks where the preset is used.

Status Colors
-------------

> :guilabel:`Status Colors` are the colors used to indicate the status of certain actions. They're
> used through pop-up messages that appear to provide feedback to the user in your website's
> front and back end. To customize your website :guilabel:`Status Colors`, in the :guilabel:`Advanced`
> section, click on the dots to change their color.

Reviewer: I think this is a great explanation overall :ok_hand: . I suggest tweaking it a little bit, mainly, to try and limit repetitions, add examples to make it clear what we mean by "status" and simplify it a bit.

```suggestion
Status colors are used to indicate the status of certain actions (e.g., :guilabel:`Success`, :guilabel:`Warning`, etc.) . They're used in pop-up messages that appear to provide feedback to users and website visitors. To customize your website's :guilabel:`Status Colors`, scroll down to the :guilabel:`Advanced` section and click on the dots to change their color.
```

.. example::
   .. image:: themes/advanced.png

>       :scale: 100%

Reviewer: I'd remove the scaling since it's 100%

      :alt: Status color selection

   .. image:: themes/success.png
      :alt: Success pop-up

.. _website/themes/page-layouts:

> Page layouts

Reviewer: Same as above, I'd use the singular

============

> Odoo offers multiple styles to display your pages content, such as blocks, pictures and more. In the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Odoo offers multiple styles to display your pages content, such as blocks, pictures, and more. In the
```

> Odoo offers multiple styles to display your pages content, such as blocks, pictures and more. In the
> :guilabel:`Website` section, click on :guilabel:`Page Layout` and select one in the dropdown menu.

Reviewer: I think the first sentence is more about blocks that it is about the page layout; I'd change it and adapt the rest accordingly:

```suggestion
The :guilabel:`Page layout` option in the :guilabel:`Website` section allows you to change the overall display and spacing of building blocks and website elements on pages. Click the dropdown menu and select the desired layout.
```

Under :guilabel:`Page Layout`, customize your :guilabel:`Background` by choosing an

> :guilabel:`Image`, creating a :guilabel:`Pattern` by selecting an image, or leaving it blank.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Image`, using a selected image in a :guilabel:`Pattern`, or leaving it blank.
```
you don't really create the pattern (you can't choose it or anything, you can just select the image)

.. _website/themes/fonts:

Fonts
=====

Odoo allows you to customize the font family and size for specific elements on your website,
including paragraphs, headings, buttons, and input fields.

- :guilabel:`Font Family`: In the :guilabel:`Paragraph`, :guilabel:`Headings`, and
  :guilabel:`Button` sections, select a font from the dropdown menu.

> - :guilabel:`Font Size`: In the :guilabel:`Paragraph`, :guilabel:`Headings`, :guilabel:`Button` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Font Size`: In the :guilabel:`Paragraph`, :guilabel:`Headings`, :guilabel:`Button`, and
```

  :guilabel:`Input Fields` sections, use the :guilabel:`Font Size` field to set a default size.
  Click the :icon:`fa-caret-right` (arrow) icon to expand the section and define custom sizes
  (e.g., based on the heading level, button size, etc.).

Additionally, each element-specific section offers extra styling options, such as
:guilabel:`Line Height` and :guilabel:`Margins`, for further customization.

Custom fonts
------------

> In the :guilabel:`Paragraph` section, click on :guilabel:`Font Family`, then on

Reviewer: - I'd add a small intro
- You don't really click on Font familiy but the dropdown next to it
- you don't necessarily have to be in the Paragraphs section, it can be any section

```suggestion
To add a custom font, click the dropdown menu related to the :guilabel:`Font Family` field and select
```

:guilabel:`Add a Custom Font` at the bottom of the dropdown menu. In the pop-up window:

> - To add a Google font, click on :guilabel:`Select a Google Font` and click on a font that you like
>   from the list. Toggle off the :guilabel:`Serve font from Google servers` if your website is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To add a Google font, click on :guilabel:`Select a Google Font` and click on the desired font
 in the list. Toggle off the :guilabel:`Serve font from Google servers` if your website is
```

  operated from a location where regulations require compliance with laws such as, but not limited
  to, the European Union's GDPR. This will ensure that the Google Font is stored on your website's
  server instead of Google's.
- To upload a custom font from your computer, click on :guilabel:`Choose File`.

> To complete the new font addition and make it available in the :guilabel:`Font family` menu, click
> on :guilabel:`Save and Reload`.

Reviewer: I feel like we could really simplify this:

```suggestion
Once done, click on :guilabel:`Save and Reload`.
```

> Button style

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Button styles
```
In this case I'd use the plural because you have two types of buttons

============

To customize the style of your website's primary and secondary buttons, navigate to the
:guilabel:`Button` section in the website editor and edit the relevant options:

- Click the arrow next to the :guilabel:`Primary Style` or :guilabel:`Secondary Style` fields and
  select one of the available styles for each type of button: :guilabel:`Fill`, :guilabel:`Outline`,
  or :guilabel:`Flat`. When selecting :guilabel:`Outline`, the :guilabel:`Border Width` option
  appears below, allowing you to adjust the width of the button's outline.

> - :ref:`Modify the fonts <website/themes/fonts>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :ref:`Modify the fonts <website/themes/fonts>`.
```

- Adjust the :guilabel:`Padding` to change the size of the spacing (in pixels) around the buttons'
  labels.
- Customize the buttons' border radius using the :guilabel:`Round Corners` option.
- Add an animation when a button is clicked in the :guilabel:`On Click Effect` dropdown menu.

.. image:: themes/buttons.png
      :alt: Primary and secondary buttons

.. tip::
   You can define custom :guilabel:`Small` and :guilabel:`Large` sizes for button's

>    :guilabel:`Padding`, :guilabel:`Font Size`, and :guilabel:`Round Corners` : click on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :guilabel:`Padding`, :guilabel:`Font Size`, and :guilabel:`Round Corners` : Click on the
```

   :icon:`fa-caret-right` (arrow) icon and use the related fields.

.. image:: themes/button-settings.png
      :scale: 80%

>       :alt: Button padding, font size and round corners settings

Reviewer: I would adjust the indentation here so the image is displayed as part of the tip.

have made the desired changes, click on :guilabel:`Save` to confirm and apply them to your website.

Choosing theme
==============

In the :guilabel:`Website` section, click on :guilabel:`Switch Theme` to open the theme selector.
Hover your mouse over the themes to see an extended preview of each page. Click on a page to apply
the theme to your website.

Editing colors
==============

In the :guilabel:`Colors` section, click on the paint palette icon to select your color palette. These are
made of five colors: three main colors and two light and dark colors. You can change the colors in
your palette by clicking on the color dots located on the left of the paint palette icon. The color
selection panel offers two options:

- **Solid**, to choose from a selection of colors.
- **Custom**, to select a specific color tone manually (or add an #HEX or RGBA code).

Odoo automatically creates presets for your chosen palette. If you want to modify them, click on
:guilabel:`Color Presets` to display them and click on a preset to customize it further. Each
color preset contains colors for your building block’s Background, Text, Headings, Links, Primary

> Buttons, and Secondary Buttons.

Author: Thanks for the reminder! I'll go for the no formatting option as I think I used A LOT of guilabel formatting already on this page :)

.. image:: themes/color-presets.png
   :scale: 80%
   :alt: Color presets

To apply a color preset to a building block on your site, select it, go to the :guilabel:`Customize`
tab, click the color dot located next to :guilabel:`Background`, and choose a :guilabel:`Theme`,
a :guilabel:`Color`, or :guilabel:`Gradient`.

.. note::
   Changing a color preset automatically updates the colors of both the default preset and the
   building blocks where the preset is used.

> Changing page layout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Changing the page layout
```

Author: Same comment I did above about adding "the"

In the meantime, I asked Siobhan what would be best, and she recommended not using "the" in front of nouns in our headlines.

Reviewer: see my other reply ;)

====================

Odoo offers multiple styles to display your pages content, such as blocks, pictures and more. In the
:guilabel:`Website` section, click on :guilabel:`Page Layout` and select one in the dropdown menu.
Under :guilabel:`Page Layout`, customize your :guilabel:`Background` by choosing an
:guilabel:`Image`, creating a :guilabel:`Pattern`, or leaving it blank.

Adding a custom font
====================

In the :guilabel:`Paragraph` section, click on :guilabel:`Font Family` and on
:guilabel:`Add a Custom Font` at the bottom of the dropdown menu. In the pop-up window:

- To add a Google font, click on :guilabel:`Select a Google Font` and click on a font that you like

>   from the list.

Author: Right. I added some information about it :)

- To upload a custom font from your computer, click on :guilabel:`Choose File`.

To complete the new font addition and make it available in the font family menu, click on
:guilabel:`Save and Reload`.

> Modifying theme fonts

Author: I did the swap,  named it Modifying Fonts, and created an H3 for Adding a custom font

=====================

Odoo allows you to customize the font family and size for specific text elements on your website,
including paragraphs, headings, buttons, and input fields.

- **Font Family**: In the :guilabel:`Paragraph`, :guilabel:`Headings`, and :guilabel:`Button` sections,
  click on :guilabel:`Font Family` and select a font from the dropdown menu.

- **Font Size**: In the :guilabel:`Paragraph`, :guilabel:`Headings`, :guilabel:`Button` and
  :guilabel:`Input Fields` sections, use the :guilabel:`Font Size` field to set a default size. Click
  the arrow next to it to define custom :guilabel:`Small` and :guilabel:`Large` sizes.

Additionally, each section offers extra text styling options, such as :guilabel:`Line Height` and
:guilabel:`Margins`, for further customization.

> Modifying button style

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modifying the button styles
```
and I think I would add back a screenshot somewhere in this section (like the one that was there before) because I don't think the different between primary and secondary buttons is always clear for people. It certainly wasn't for me at the beginning :see_no_evil:

Reviewer: Yeah, for sure! However, I do think that this is a bit tricky (and probably preferential). Looking at our documentation in general, here are the preferred options for headings:
1) Minimal use of verbs, use the nominal form when possible (Configuring tasks --> Task configuration)
2) When verbs are needed (because it can't be avoided or it sounds unnatural to do so), use the plural when it makes sense to do so (Creating a task stage --> Creating task stages)
3) If a verb with "the" feels necessary, it's okay to keep it (e.g., [Using the project dashboard](https://www.odoo.com/documentation/master/applications/services/project/project_management/project_dashboard.html)).

In this particular doc page, I considered suggesting we remove verbs entirely, for example:

- Modifying button style → Button styles (plural, since there are several)
- Changing page layout → Page layout

I think that could work well across all headings here. What do you think? I’d say the choice between plural and singular doesn't need to be strictly consistent across headings; we can go with whatever fits best contextually.

======================

> In the :guilabel:`Button` section, click on :guilabel:`Primary Style` or :guilabel:`Secondary Style`
> and select :guilabel:`Fill`, :guilabel:`Outline`, or :guilabel:`Flat`. When selecting
> :guilabel:`Outline`, the :guilabel:`Border Width` option appears below, allowing you to adjust the
> width of the button's outline.
> 
> The :guilabel:`Paddings` fields allows you to change the size of the spacing around the text
> displayed on a button. You can also customize the border radius of buttons using the
> :guilabel:`Round Corners` option and add an animation when a button is clicked in the
> :guilabel:`On Click Effect` dropdown menu.

Reviewer: I think a bullet list (with all the different options available) would make the available options more clear:

```suggestion
To customize the style of your website's primary and secondary buttons, navigate to the :guilabel:`Button` section in the website editor and edit the relevant options:

- Click the arrow next to the :guilabel:`Primary Style` or :guilabel:`Secondary Style` fields and select one of the available styles for each type of button: :guilabel:`Fill`, :guilabel:`Outline`, or :guilabel:`Flat`. When selecting :guilabel:`Outline`, the :guilabel:`Border Width` option appears below, allowing you to adjust the
width of the button's outline.
- Modify the :ref:`font and font size <add a ref in the section of the doc where you mention fonts>`.
- Adjust the :guilabel:`Padding` to change the size of the spacing (in pixels) around the buttons' labels. 
- Customize the buttons' border radius using the :guilabel:`Round Corners` option.
- Add an animation when a button is clicked in the :guilabel:`On Click Effect` dropdown menu.
```
I would also mention in a tip after the list the fact that you can expand the Padding, Font size, and Round Corners (use guilabels :wink: ) using the caret-right icon and explain what "Small" and "Large" refer to exactly.
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ee1d4b78-5045-4ae0-8120-bce7006b50e2)

Modifying link style
====================

In the :guilabel:`Link` section, click on :guilabel:`Link Style` to choose the appearance of links

> on your website: select :guilabel:`No Underline`, :guilabel:`Underline On Hover`, or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on your website: Select :guilabel:`No Underline`, :guilabel:`Underline On Hover`, or
```
